---
layout: article
title: Rural Computerization is Necessary
---

Apparently, Fair and Lovely makes you fairer in 14 days. Apparently,
drinking Milo ensures that you can be good at studies, sports and other
activities without any effort. Apparently, rural computerization is
necessary. 

Computers have a wide variety of uses. They allow fast and painless
organization of data, they allow instantaneous communication across the
globe, they allow you to make your life go according to a fixed
schedule. Now just think about this for a moment. I am a farmer, I wake
up at sunrise, go to my field, work with my buffalo all day long, eat my
meals, gossip with other farmers in my village in the evening and do
pretty much nothing else. Now what on earth am I going to do with a
computer? I have almost no data to organize, everybody I care about
communicating with lives in my village, or at the most an hour's walk
away and it would me well nigh impossible to make my life go by a
simpler routine. To sum it up, the average Indian farmer who owns just
about enough land to live off, has absolutely no need for a computer.
This topic means just about the same as giving your five your child a
private helicopter to commute to and from school, just because the
school bus takes half an hour longer. 

Yes, I agree, farmers aren't the only people in rural India. There are
traditional artisans, shepherds, small-time businessmen and of course
there are the people who are slightly better off and may be in the
village panchayats. For most of these people, it's the farmer story with
a few technical variations. Yes, it may be helpful linking the
panchayats in one vast computer network, but just because its helpful
doesn't mean that it's necessary. 

Since there appears to be a lot of factual information being used here,
let me use a fact of my own. Over half of the workers in rural India get
daily wages amounting to about 8 rupees. That's about the same price as
bottle of Coke. Imagine going through the whole day, paying for food and
transport on just Rs. 8. Imagine doing this for each and every day of
your life. I wouldn't be able to do it, I don't think anyone else here
would be able to do that. Now I ask you, which is "necessary”, rural
computerization, or ensuring that every man, woman and child in India
gets four square meals a day? The funds required for adequate rural
computerization would run into a few crores of rupees. Now if that money
were invested in irrigation projects, or establishing fair economic
co-operatives in the villages, we might be able to produce enough food
to feed a billion people. 

On top of that villages aren't exactly the best place for placing
computers. About this time last year fifteen of us from our school went
to a village and spent a day and night with a village family. I'm not
sure how many of you have gone to a real village, one which is made of a
few houses surrounded for miles by fields, so I'll give you a first hand
account. A village is hot, humid, dusty and dirty. Most people live in
mud huts which get washed away with every flood. Phone lines are
non-existent, electricity is uncommon and running water downright rare.
And a place like that is where the opposition wants to put lakhs of
rupees worth of computer equipment. 

In all likelihood, we would have to establish proper building
infrastructure first, then bring in power and telephone lines, maybe a
few air-conditioners as well. Only then could we bring in the first
computers. In the time that it would take us to do that, there would
probably be whole range of problems ranging from natural calamities to a
sticky bureaucracy which would only push us farther back.

Rural computerization may have some benefits. But those benefits are too
few and far between to justify the required investment in time, money
and man power. In addition to the problems I've talked about, such a
task would require immense man power to teach the villagers how to use
computers. It's one thing to teach school students like us to use
computers, it's quite another to teach people around forty years old to
use computers, especially if it’s the first time they've heard about
computers. We all know how hard it is to teach our grandparents and even
our parents how to use computers like we do. If you want to computerize
something, computerize hospitals and schools. Give us laptops. At least
you'll be certain that you're saving a generation from premature
back-aches and our parents will bless you with all their hearts for
lightening our school bags. But please don't give the latest IBM
ThinkPad to a person who only cares about his plot of land and his
buffalo.

