---
layout: article
title: Television immobilizes the mind
---

Back in the far past, when we humans first evolved, we started out as
hunter-gatherers, as nomads. A few dozen millennia later, the first
humans became farmers. They became cultivators and settled down to build
great cities. Even then they continued to travel across the vast world.
More recently we have ventured across the seas and have started
travelling across space. Unfortunately a sizeable portion of the human
race has given up the hereditary instinct to travel and move. They have
started to live completely sedentary lifestyle and have restricted not
only their bodies, but also their minds. They are of course slaves of
the television.

Over the past century the television has proved itself to be quite
effective at restricting the human mind and body. For all its virtues of
instant and widespread communication, it has been utterly unable to shed
this vice. A television takes a perfectly intelligent human being and
force-feeds him a stream of "programming content" decided not by the
viewer, but by the businessmen in control. If the visitor does not find
something that he likes, he simply watches something that he does not
like, and later tells his friends how bad the programme was. He cannot
turn off the television for the simple reason that it has already
captured and immobilized his mind. This immobilization keeps a person
from doing something worthwhile and instead forces him to do something
that is more often than not, useless.

This effect can be seen quite obviously in society. Before the
television became all powerful, families would spend the evening meal
around the dining room table, talking about what had happened to them
throughout the day. Now those same families are all too happy to eat
before the television in complete silence, while the television does all
the talking. Not too long ago, the majority of Bengali college students
talked of mainly three things: studies, politics and cricket. Now
studies have gone out the window, politics have somehow disappeared and
cricket has taken a back seat. Instead, the latest music video and the
latest episode of the most favourite soap opera has become the talking
point; once again thanks to the television. 

Time and time again the television has been called the "idiot box" and
without reason. True, there is a certain amount of worthwhile programmes
to be seen. But to actually choose those particular channels and ignore
the numerically superior other "entertainment" channels takes a certain
degree of will power unavailable to most. We are kept glued to our seats
with our eyes glued to the television. Our minds are thus fed
essentially the same ideas and visions of violence, obscenity and social
misconceptions over and over again until they are firmly ingrained in
our psyche. If the television is good at anything, it is brainwashing. 

Unlike other forms of communication like books and even the Internet,
the television removes all desires to actively search for information.
Instead our brains take in everything and anything that is served on the
television's platter. Often the results can be quite disastrous leading
to anything from complete addiction in children and adults alike to
extremely aggressive behaviour in teenagers and even shootings in
schools. The collective result is a society where people do not think
for themselves, but rather believe blindly what is shown and told to
them. All the while the advertisers and channel owners are going
laughing all the way to the bank. 

There is more at stake here than just our electricity bills and
students' grades. The greater percentage of the human race is being
turned from a race of explorers, adventurers and thinkers to a breed of
well-grown couch potatoes. While the majority of the human population
sits safely glued to the television, society as a whole is degrading.
Everything from our concepts of beauty and attractiveness to who we want
to lead us is quite simply being doctored. And the television is merely
the means to do it. Once more it all boils down to a matter of choice.
If we choose to accept this immobilization, we become a planet of
brain-washed zombies. If not, then we travel an unknown path, just as we
have been doing ever since we stood upright on the plains of Africa. 

