---
layout: article
title: The Generation Gap
---

When my father was about my age, his idea of hanging out, was tea and
chow mein in Shyambazar. My idea of hanging out is hitting Inox with a
few of my friends and getting one of them to pay for me. The same goes
for most of the other people of my generation, except of course, those
who are left with the bill. Anyway, the point of this is to say that the
more things change, the more things say the same. Our fathers used to
bunk class and go off to the local cafe, we bunk classes and go off to
the local cyber cafй. Respected chairperson, judges and my dear
friends, the “generation gap” as we call it, is not so much a gap as
it is a parallel path. They lead to more or less the same place, a
strange place called “success” but they go through slightly
different places on the way. It’s said that all roads lead to Rome,
what that proverb neglects to mention is that each one of those roads,
start at different places and follow different routes. It is the same
thing with the lives of our parents and our lives. We’re learning the
same lessons as our parents, we’re making almost the same mistakes,
and some all new ones. Yes, I admit the times are certainly not the
same, nor are the conditions. But is it really that different? Are we
really so different from our parents? Do we really not understand each
other? 

I don’t think so. Sure at times, what they think is totally alien to
us. When my father told me that his favourite activity during the pujas
was literally walking all over Calcutta seeing the various pandals, I
said “You’re joking right?” My idea of a fun puja is checking out
the local food stalls with my neighbours. And if I find it hard to
understand him them, imagine how I feel when he says with a tinge of
pride that he would regularly walk from Shyambazar to Dalhousie. I
suspect he feels pretty much the same thing when I talk about Nokia’s
latest mobile phone. But then again he understands perfectly when I say
that Beckham’s the reason England lost Euro 2004. 

Now that’s no to say that we’re not different from them. Of course
we are, and some of us are proud of that. For some of us “Dare to be
different” has more meaning than “Yeh dil mange more”. We swear by
Nike and Hawking and Eminem. Our parents swore by Bata and Newton and
Sinatra. Our grandparents swore by the local cobbler, Jagadish Chandra
Bose and Bankimchandra. It’s not our fault, it’s not their fault,
it’s no one’s faults. It’s just the changing times. We’re
adapting the way we best can. If that means following a different path
from our parents, then so be it. Darwin’s golden rule was “survival
of the fittest” We’re merely trying to win in the game of the life,
and maybe someday the parallel paths will meet.  

