---
layout: article
title:  Youth today have no morals, no ethics. They worship only money.
---

  Let me go over some of the things that have been said here
  today: Today's youth are different. They want money. They're
  interested in new and fancy things and want to get their hands
  on them. They are rude. They do not respect their elders. They
  are sometimes ungrateful. Being a youth myself, I agree that
  some of these statements are true, I will not even for a moment
  say that they are not. But some of these statements are mere
  generalizations drawn from from a short sighted observation of
  only a small number of incidents.

  Do we want money? Yes, we do. Is it wrong to do so? No it
  certainly isn't. Money is what makes the world go round. You
  can never have enough of it. And besides, rich people today are
  not in any way hated or condemned, in fact they are admired and
  respected. Money is given as reward for worthy achievements.
  The Nobel Prizes carry a hefty monetary prize. We worship
  money. True. There's no point in denying it. But do we worship
  only money? I don't think so. Any teenager or young adult today
  has his icons and role models whom he tries to emulate. Call it
  hero worship if you will or whatever else you like. The truth
  remains, we have the same feeling and reverence for our role
  models, or rather their achievements that we do for simple
  money. We want to be respected and well known and have
  accomplishments to our name in the same way that we want to be
  rich. If it is wrong to be rich, it is wrong to want to be
  respected and accomplished. Money is simply the yardstick by
  which we measure our success.

  It is indeed a common mistake to equate wanting to be rich and
  prosperous with greed, immorality and unethical, unscrupulous
  conduct. Many people still believe that money is, quite simply,
  the root of all evil. The problem with this opinion, as is the
  problem with most opinions, is that it is terribly
  short-sighted. We've already seen that money is not necessarily
  a bad thing and that people who have it are not bad people.
  However today's topic seems to make the conclusion that todays
  youth are immoral (a fact I do not accept) simply because they
  want money. Though that is not what the topic explicitly
  states, that is the essence. The topic is therefore terribly
  rash and short-sighted at best and completely and grossly wrong
  at worst.

  Of course, it is essential that we examine not only the essence,
  but the fine print of the topic as well. The topic says very
  clearly that today's youth have “no morals” and “no ethics”.
  Now, the common complaints against youngsters are that they are
  rowdy, rude, disrespectful and sometimes selfish and
  opportunistic. But in a very unbiased manner let us consider
  whether all this is the same as being “immoral” or “unethical”.
  Is shouting in class or arguing with the teacher the same as
  killing people for no justifiable cause? Is being highly
  competitive the same as being willing to kill your brother or
  father because you don't like them? Genghis Khan was immoral,
  Hitler was unethical and unscrupulous. If you're willing to
  kill thousands of peasants or millions of Jews just to see them
  suffer, you are immoral. But if you want to get a promotion over
  colleague, that simply means that you're a competitive person.
  Immorality and lack of ethics are not accusations to be taken
  lightly. Before making them, we must judge the evidence
  strictly and in this case, the evidence certainly fails the
  test. (Examples maybe Maths-integration/continuity)

  So what are our conclusion till now? It is not wrong to be rich.
  Youth today worship their role models, and use money as a
  yardstick to measure their own accomplishments. Youth today are
  sometimes rude and rebellious. But indiscipline cannot be
  equated with immorality. What may be produced as evidence in
  support of the topic, holds true only in a few isolated and
  unique incidences. It would not be proper to draw
  generalizations from them. Thus todays topic reduces to a few
  rash and hasty statements which do not stand up to scrutiny.

